# Contributing to Reactylon
Thank you for your interest in contributing to <b>Reactylon</b>! Your help is greatly appreciated. Follow the guidelines below to ensure a smooth and productive collaboration.

## How to Contribute

### 1. Reporting Bugs
If you find a bug, please:

1. Check existing issues to ensure it hasn’t been reported already.
2. Create a new issue including as much detail as possible:
    - Steps to reproduce the issue.
    - Logs, or error messages, if applicable.
    - Expected and actual behavior.
    - A minimal reproduction example. Whenever possible, provide:
        - A sandbox (e.g., Stackblitz or CodeSanbox) project that reproduces the issue.
        - If you cannot create a sandbox, include relevant code snippets directly in the issue, ensuring they are self-contained and minimal.
    - Versions: Reactylon, Babylon.js, React, React Native (if applicable).

### 2. Requesting Features
Do you have a great idea or a request for a new feature? Please use [Discussions Template](https://github.com/simonedevit/reactylon/discussions/13).

### 3. Submitting Code Changes
1. Please be sure you have the following installed:
    - Visual Studio Code
    - Android Studio, Xcode (Reactylon Native only) 
    - Node and Npm versions declared in "Engines" section of [package.json](./package.json) file.
    - Bash, a Unix-based shell, required for running scripts and commands:
        - On macOS and Linux, Bash is pre-installed. Switch from zsh to Bash if your are using macOS.
        - On Windows, you can use Git Bash or enable Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).

2. Fork the repository and clone it to your local machine.
3. Create a new branch by using `feature/` or `fix/` prefix, e.g.:
    ```bash
    git checkout -b fix/add-properties-on-camera
    ```
4. Install the dependencies executing the command `npm run init`.
5. Build all monorepo's packages executing the command `npm run build`.
4. Make your changes (*).
5. Build the project from the *packages/library* directory executing the command `npm run build:local`.
6. Symlink Reactylon package and create a playground project to test it:
    1. Open a new Terminal and create a symbolic link in the global _node_modules_ directory by executing the command:

        ```bash
        cd packages/library/build && npm link
        ```
    2. Open a new Visual Studio Code window and create a new Reactylon project by executing the command:

        ```bash
        npx create-reactylon-app playground
        ```
    3. Go into _tsconfig.json_ and add to the **compilerOptions** attribute:

        ```json
        "paths": {
            "*": [
              "node_modules/*"
            ]
        },
        ```
    4. Go into _webpack.config.ts_ and add to **resolve** attribute:

         ```ts
        modules: [path.resolve(__dirname, 'node_modules'), 'node_modules']
         ```
    5. Move on move _playground_ folder and symlink the Reactylon package by executing the command:

        ```bash
        cd playground && npm link reactylon
        ```
    6. Start the live server by executing the command:

        ```bash
        npm start
        ```
    7. Now each changes that you do on Reactylon project, will be reflected on playground project.

7. Test on plaground project.
8. Go back on Reactylon project, write the integration tests and run them from the _packages/library_ directory using the command `npm run test`.
9. Commit your work with a meaningful commit message (see [Commits](#commits)), e.g.:
    ```
    git commit -m "fix(reconciler): add radius and position props on camera #0"
    ```
10. Push the branch to your forked repository:
    ```
    git push fix/add-properties-on-camera
    ```
11. Open a Pull Request to the main repository:
    - Clearly explain what your changes do.
    - Link any related issues.

<br/>

(*) If you make changes to _packages/common_ or _packages/generator_, run `npm run build` in the respective directory.

## Development Guidelines

### Git Hooks
Before each commit it is executed a typecheck (see [tsconfig.json](tsconfig.json) for the checking rules). If it is ok, the commit syntax will be validated (see [commitlint.config.js](commitlint.config.js) for conventional commits specification) and at the end the commit will be stylized (see [.prettierrc](.prettierrc) for styling rules) before to be committed on the branch.

### Conventions

#### Location
- Every shared utility should be located in _packages/common_.
- The React components/hooks belonging to the web and mobile should be located in _packages/library/src/core_.
- The React components/hooks belonging solely to web should be located in _packages/library/src/web_.
- The React components/hooks belonging solely to mobile should be located in _packages/library/src/mobile_.
- The contents of _packages/library/src/_generated_ should not be modified manually, as they are automatically generated by the generator package.

#### Naming
- All folders should be written in _lowercase_.
- All React components should be written in _PascalCase_. 

#### Commits
Each commit should follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) specification, take a look at [commitlint.config.js](commitlint.config.js) for Reactylon's prefixes and scopes. At the end of your commit message, if you are working on a issue, add the issue number preceded by '#'. <u>This is really important to generate the proper _CHANGELOG.md_ file</u>.

## Code of Conduct
Please read and adhere to our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to maintain a welcoming and inclusive environment.

## Need Help?
If you have questions or need further assistance, feel free to:

- Comment on an issue or pull request.
- Send an email at contact@reactylon.com.

<hr/>
By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same license as the project. Thank you for helping make <b>Reactylon</b> better! 🚀